Fixed #33797 -- Prioritized cached database backend for cached sessions in docs. (#16095)
django/django: docs/topics/http/sessions.txt

default cache. To use another cache, set :setting:`SESSION_CACHE_ALIAS` to the
name of that cache.

Once your cache is configured, you have to choose between a database-backed
cache or a non-persistent cache.

The non-persistent cache ``django.contrib.sessions.backends.cache`` is faster
because it disregards database persistence. But you may have to handle edge

> cases caused by the cache being ephemeral. This might lead to a more complex

Reviewer: Ephemeral. Is that a well recognised term for folk using this? Even as a native English speaker I had to Google the meaning of it.

Author: You're right. Thanks. I'll try to find a better way of explaining this. Will rebase and push again to keep this at one commit.

Author: @smithdc1 I changed `ephemeral` to `non-persistent` or `unreliable, transient`

I think these should get the point we're trying to convey across. Thanks for the feedback.

operational setup.

> One solution you can use is to configure cache backends as Memcached and

Author: Updated, thanks.

Redis to be persistent.

But unless your cache backend is persistent, the database cache
``django.contrib.sessions.backends.cached_db`` is a better option to avoid
edge cases caused by unreliable, transient data in production.

Both session stores are quite fast. And in most cases, the ``cached_db``
backend will be fast enough. But if you need that last bit of performance,
and are willing to let session data be expunged from time to time, the

> ``cache`` backend is for you.

Author: Updated, thanks.

default cache. To use another cache, set :setting:`SESSION_CACHE_ALIAS` to the
name of that cache.

Once your cache is configured, you have to choose between a database-backed
cache or a non-persistent cache.

> The database cache ``django.contrib.sessions.backends.cached_db`` uses a
> write-through cache -- every write to the cache will also be written to the
> database. Session reads only use the database if the data is not already in the
> cache.
> 
> For persistent, cached data, set :setting:`SESSION_ENGINE` to
> ``"django.contrib.sessions.backends.cached_db"``. And follow the configuration
> instructions for the `using database-backed sessions`_.
> 
> To use the non-persistent cache ``django.contrib.sessions.backends.cache`` set
> :setting:`SESSION_ENGINE` to ``"django.contrib.sessions.backends.cache"`` for a
> simple caching session store. Session data will be stored only in your cache.
> 
> This is faster because it disregards database persistence. But you will have to
> handle edge cases caused by a non-persistent cache. Cached data can be evicted
> if the cache fills up or if the cache server is restarted. This might lead to a
> more complex operational setup.
> 
> One solution you can use is to configure cache backends such as Memcached and
> Redis to be persistent. But unless your cache backend is persistent, opt for
> the database cache to avoid edge cases caused by transient, unreliable data in
> production.

Reviewer 2: I tried an edit to reduce the number of words, and to be consistent between what we call a backend, a cache, and server, what do you think?

```suggestion
The cached database backend (``cached_db``) uses a write-through cache --
session writes are applied to both the cache and the database. Session reads
use the cache, or the database if the data has been evicted from the cache. To
use this backend, set :setting:`SESSION_ENGINE` to
``"django.contrib.sessions.backends.cached_db"``, and follow the configuration
instructions for the `using database-backed sessions`_.

The cache backend (``cache``) stores session data only in your cache. This is
faster because it avoids database persistence, but you will have to consider
what happens when cache data is evicted. Eviction can occur if the cache fills
up or the cache server is restarted, and it will mean session data is lost,
including logging out users. To use this backend, set :setting:`SESSION_ENGINE`
to ``"django.contrib.sessions.backends.cache"``.

The cache backend can be made persistent by using a persistent cache, such as
Redis with appropriate configuration. But unless your cache is definitely
configured for sufficient persistence, opt for the cached database backend, to
avoid edge cases caused by unreliable data storage in production.
```

Author: I like it @adamchainz 

Especially this part:

> session writes are applied to both the cache and the database

Which what I had done does not mention.

I would split this long-ish sentence:

> But unless your cache is definitely configured for sufficient persistence, opt for the cached database backend, to
avoid edge cases caused by unreliable data storage in production.

into:

> But unless your cache is definitely configured for sufficient persistence, opt for the cached database backend. This avoids edge cases caused by unreliable data storage in production.

WDYT?

Otherwise LGTM!

I can hit `Commit suggestion` and then rebase to have one commit.

Reviewer 3: I like both Adam's proposition and @jvzammit's suggestion to split a long sentence. 

> I can hit Commit suggestion and then rebase to have one commit.

Please push edits.

default cache. To use another cache, set :setting:`SESSION_CACHE_ALIAS` to the
name of that cache.

Once your cache is configured, you have to choose between a database-backed
cache or a non-persistent cache.

The database cache ``django.contrib.sessions.backends.cached_db`` uses a
write-through cache -- every write to the cache will also be written to the
database. Session reads only use the database if the data is not already in the
cache.

For persistent, cached data, set :setting:`SESSION_ENGINE` to
``"django.contrib.sessions.backends.cached_db"``. And follow the configuration
instructions for the `using database-backed sessions`_.

To use the non-persistent cache ``django.contrib.sessions.backends.cache`` set
:setting:`SESSION_ENGINE` to ``"django.contrib.sessions.backends.cache"`` for a

> simple caching session store. Session data will be stored directly in your

Reviewer 2: In a way, "cached_db" also stores "directly", I think "only" is a better word here

```suggestion
simple caching session store. Session data will be stored only in your
```

Author: Updated, thanks.

cache.

This is faster because it disregards database persistence. But you will have to
handle edge cases caused by a non-persistent cache. Cached data can be evicted
if the cache fills up or if the cache server is restarted. This might lead to a
more complex operational setup.

One solution you can use is to configure cache backends as Memcached and Redis
to be persistent. But unless your cache backend is persistent, opt for the
database cache to avoid edge cases caused by transient, unreliable data in
production.

Both session stores are quite fast. And in most cases, the ``cached_db``
backend will be fast enough. But if you need that last bit of performance, and
are willing to let session data be expunged from time to time, the ``cache``

> backend is for you.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can drop this paragraph now? We already mentioned that "cache" is faster above.

Author: Yes we can. I.e. dropped.
